# Archetypal Traits
<p> In absense of a strict class system, archetypical traits are meant to help give characters definition. Archetypical traits represent the attributes that a player's character finds most important to their sense of self. While not necessarily the character's highest attributes, they are meant to be the attributes the character seeks to use and improve. In addition to defining the character, they also serve various mechanical purposes, such as character progression and fulfilling skill tree progression requirements </p>
<p> The design philosophy of archetypical traits is reminiscent of D&D's attempt at linking attributes with classes. Through saving throw proficiencies, abilities scaling off of attributes, and multiclass requirements, Wizards of the Coast partially defined their classes by limiting what kind of character would fit into them. Archetypical traits are meant to reverse this: You start with your important traits, and use them to define your character's 'class'. </p>

## Starting Out
<p> When making your character, you can either pick two or three attributes. If you pick two, designate one as a major archetype and the other as a minor archetype. If you picked three, all of them are minor archetypes. Major archetypes gain a +2 bonus, and minor archetypes gain a +1 bonus. Later levels will confer further bonuses. They will also allow you to either select other attributes as minor archetypes or upgrade minor archetypes into major archetypes. New minor archetypes gain the +1 bonus. Upgrading to a major archetype confers the +2 bonus, but does not stack with the +1 minor archetype bonus. </p>

//I'm still deciding if I like this next part
<p> Regular, minor, and major attributes have increasing stat caps. Maxing out a regular attribute allows it to be treated as a minor archetype for requirement purposes, but it does not increase its cap until it is officially upgraded to a minor archetype. Similarly, maxing out a minor archetype allows it to be treated as a major archetype for requirement purposes, but does not increase its cap until upgraded. </p>

## Skill Tree Requirements
<p> Certain skill trees and branches will have archetype requirements. These requirements are meant to balance accessibility with ability definition. For example, the weaponmaster class might require physicality or finesse as a minor archetype, the blademaster subtree might require both as a minor archetype, and the critical aim capstone ability of the blademaster subtree might require finess to be a major archetype. </p>
